[Music]
you're watching cooking recipes tv.com
chef Brian here come on in let's have
some fun today we're cooking a French
classic beef Burgundy
also known as beef in Burgundy this
classic recipe has been passed down for
generations and generations now I'm
bringing it to your kitchen let's get
cooking
we're going to start off with two pounds
of all-natural and cut stew beef I'm
gonna sear this with some fresh cracked
black pepper as well as some kosher salt
after I seared the beef and seasoned it
well I'm gonna
Sonjay the beef now what that means is
that is a French terminology and it's if
it needs to add a bit of flour to the
beef which will ultimately thicken up
our stew as it cooks to that we're going
to add an entire bottle of red wine I'm
gonna add some organic beef broth now
when I was in culinary school and
working in the hotels one of the things
I really love to do it sounds strange
I'm sure for you a lot of people was to
make a classic feel stuff or beef stock
roasting of the bones and the thyme in
the preparation 12 to 24 hours for a
finished product and I can tell you that
there's nothing like a good sauce or a
good stew that's made with a homemade
stock it's just not practical in the
home kitchen I find if you use a good
quality broth you can get almost as
close nothing wrong with these types of
products into that we're going to add
some sauteed pearl onions the classic
dish combines mushrooms which you
certainly can add as well as pearl
onions
sous-chef Amanda not so big on the
mushrooms so we skip them here finally I
want to talk to you a little bit about
some of the other additions to the
classic beef burgundy home and the
classic beef Burgundy oftentimes bacon
is added the bacon is sauteed off and
then the beef is then Sur browned if you
would in the bacon fat this this gives
the beef an excellent flavor as well as
helps with the caramelization and
coloring of the piece however we're
trying to cook healthy in 2008 we're
both working out and staying fit so
instead I sear the beef off in a canola
vegetable oil
it's just a bit healthy for more healthy
for you so something to think about
let's go ahead and let's get cooking
I've gone ahead and I've got all my you
plate ups on a half sheet pan you know
when we go ahead and now notice cracked
pepper guys really makes a huge
difference the stuff you reach up from
you in your jar and it's already cracked
it just doesn't have that flavor of
fresh cracked black pepper so really is
a lot tastier and then a little bit of
kosher salt you can season it pretty
well it'll soak it up pretty good so
we'll mix it up just to bed so go ahead
and move it around and then give it one
more little bit of salt in pepper salt
salt and pepper and that looks pretty
fantastic
our beef is well seasoned we'll move
that over to the left and that starts at
10 8 so when we're sauteing our searing
we want to get the pan extremely high
I'm going to kick up my fan here so I
don't smoke my house sell it and then
I'm gonna put a little oil in and I
think we can even like let's see how how
we are we're getting there but I'm gonna
actually give it a couple more seconds
to get searing hot and then we're gonna
cook off this beat if sous chef Amanda
can get a shot at the beef again I'm
going to go ahead and put the meat box
probably in about four batches the goal
here is to really get a nice dark color
on the beat which is going to help color
our stew
so what's to be deserted give it a
couple seconds before you word around
the idea to keep your pan hot and sear
each side so it's been cooking now about
two minutes or so and I'm going to move
this keep around a little bit and then
I'm gonna let it fit once again and this
looks pretty good as you can see it's
getting a nice sear on it right now
so what I'm going to do is half the beef
is about half done and I've got such a
big pan I got an additional room so I'm
going to search some other beef over on
this side so the pan doesn't get too hot
and I can still maintain the temperature
in my pants
keep moving the beef around and as you
can see we're getting some nice color on
that first batch I'm not going to even
think about the lap when there's just
one end
and this keeps a deep sauteing your beef
until it gets very well browned
after the beef is fully brown we're
going to have this panel with all these
great pan Jews so we're going to be
glazed with some of that red one I don't
need to pour all of it in the pan just
enough to basically pick up those pan
drippings and lose some look you loosen
them up then I'll go ahead and get a
little straight juice into our crock pot
correctly then it cooks this beef
bourguignon in the crock pot which makes
this really simple and you don't have to
worry about others and things like that
just really getting some you know to be
stared off first so get ready with your
red one alrighty so let's the glaze the
pan it's still steaming hot that's okay
just as long as we get the wine in there
right away so
and move that around like that but let
it reduce for a couple of seconds I can
come here I can turn the heat off
completely and we'll just add that to
the beat once I've gone ahead and saw
Shane the beat in the crock pot so our
beat goes into our crock pot now before
you start sauteing turn your crock pot
on get it on high setting and see all
those drippings just give it a second -
so they're tasty and delicious from here
this is where we talk about sunjai
[Music]
tablespoons and then a couple more
tablespoons and just continue to
incorporate the flour while mixing it
around this way your feet will get
evenly coated with the flour and you
won't have a lumpy stew at the end of
the day when your beef is ready so as
you can see the flour is completely
coated the beef that's exactly what we
want
from here go ahead and add the rest of
the entire bottle of red wine and guys
don't skimp on this step you want a lot
of red wine all right guys remember
those pan drippings mmm so good that red
wine so move your beef around with the
red wine for several minutes until it
starts to get hot once you see it start
to boil then you can go ahead and stir a
bit more and incorporate the beef broth
using a whole thirty-two ounce container
of beef broth we serve the beef
bourguignon at the Johnson household
with mashed potatoes as well as oven
roasted carrots and pearl onions the one
a roasts the carrots and onions in a
preheated oven 400 degrees toss the
vegetables in a light amount of olive
oil with kosher salt and pepper hey
these to us with cooking all day long
it's getting tender it's very nice
no it's time to adjust the seasonings
and that means tasting this seems really
important you need to know what you're
serving to your friends and family on a
special night so grab a spoon and taste
that tastes pretty good
but it does need a bit more salt so I'm
just going to add a bit now and I add
very gradually in that continue to taste
fresh cracked black pepper would be nice
so the beef bourguignon is really
shaping up fantastic our pearl onions
and carrots are roasting in the oven
we've got some homemade mashed potatoes
that we'll be serving with the beads
soon this is comfort food folks great in
the winter time and really salsa so then
my friends is beef bourguignon on
Americana style stay saucy and keep
cooking this is chef Roy and I'll see on
the next video